# MastersProject2016

**Overview of the project:**

The purpose of this study presented here is a possible solution to the energy and model discrepancies seen in recent Charged-Current Quasi Elastic (CCQE) measurements. In this project, we focus on developing a tool, also known as a smearing and acceptance filter simulation that apply detector effects onto Monte Carlo truth for the purposes of cross-section extraction. This is motivated by the fact that neutrino interaction model and energy discrepancies were seen in recent CCQE cross-section measurements and model independent studies are a possible solution to the analysis of experimental data.

**Abstract:**

The aim of this project was to build a model independent study simulation to test tools in order to allow for cross-section measurements that are reusable in the future. There are disagreement between recent charged current quasi-elastic (CCQE) experiments in their cross-section measurements. The development of a reconstruction smearing and acceptance filter simulation serves as a possible solution to these discrepancies that exist from having different neutrino interaction models and energy ranges. The background relevant to how nuclear effects and ultimately, the neutrino-nucleon interaction models are related to neutrino oscillation analysis is provided via the physics of neutrino oscillation, neutrino-nucleon interactions, and energy and model discrepancies sections. CCQE events were generated using a neutrino interaction generator, NuWro. A Monte Carlo template taken from the full T2K near detector (ND280) simulation and reconstruction software was used to implement the reconstruction smearing and detector acceptance effects. Validation plots were made to show that this simulation is indeed working. However, further detailed testings are required to make sure that there are no biases that come from the simulation. Future work like extending the application of this simulation to other neutrino interactions are possible once all the validations and testings are completed.

**Declaration (written by project supervisor Dr Morgan Wascko):**

Both students are new to the T2K-Neutrino research group, and are using software, and indeed a programming language (C++), that is new to them this year.  The students worked jointly on the beginning steps of the project, learning how to simulate neutrino interactions and detection using the standard software and analysis tools of the field (NuWro and ROOT) and then they diverged to work on different aspects of the project after the initial steps. Azeem Khan used MINUIT2 to perform fake data studies of interaction model parameter extraction. This was done by fitting observables as predicted by the NuWro neutrino interaction event generation. **Eunice Chen focused on adding experiment-tuned detector effects onto neutrino-nucleus interaction simulation. This used hand-written Monte Carlo code to smear NuWro-simulated events using information determined from the full T2K near detector simulation. The combined goal of this work was to build and test tools that may be used to publish accessible and re-analysable neutrino interaction cross-section data. They were both assisted by Luke Pickering, a 3rd year PhD student on T2K, but both have produced their own original work.**
